content/rules.md, before:

+++
title = "Rules"
+++
# Validity
This rule set applies to the second season of the Lega Pauper Lipsia, which roughly takes place from June 2025 to Februrary 2026. It applies only to the league's gamedays.

General disclaimer: If unspecified, we fall back on reasable defaults defined in the official (LPI rulebook)[https://www.legapauperitalia.it/rulebook]. If you have trouble with terminology used on this page, then please read into the rulebook first.

## Changelog
Whenever a rule change is made during the season, it will be reflected here.
| Previous Rule                          | New Rule                              | Effective Date |
|----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------|
| Example #1     | Example #2     | 2025-06-01     |



# Gamedays
Each leg follows the same schedule and rules.

## Tournament Mode
The tournament mode is five rounds of swiss, where each bye counts as a full win. Pairings are distributed in the spicerack app. Each round has a regular play time of 50 minutes with 5 overtime turns starting at the next upkeep after the timer has concluded. The chosen format is Pauper. You must play a tournament legal deck and adhere to the official Pauper banlist.

## Registration
TODO: Spicerack stuff.
- what to submit where when?
- how is pre-registration handled and what associated rights do you have
- what if all slots from pre-registration are taken - do we have a queue? how are people informed?
- deadlines for gameday registration and what happens when you are too late

## General Schedule
Each leg follows the same schedule.

| Time (German)         | Event                                      |
|--------------|--------------------------------------------|
| 10:30 AM     | Gameday Registration in Spicerack app      |
| 11:00 AM     | Start of 1st Round                         |
| ~12:00 PM    | Start of 2nd Round                         |
| ~1:00 PM     | Lunchbreak                                 |
| ~2:00 PM     | Start of 3rd Round                         |
| ~3:00 PM     | Start of 4th Round                         |
| ~4:00 PM     | Start of 5th Round                         |
| Latest 6:00 PM | Venue closes                            |



## Date and Place
The most up-to-date overview of where the tournaments are played can be found on the official [Lega website's landing page](https://legapauperlipsia.de).

Even though the dates are communicated to and committed by the venue, they are subject to change if cirmucanstances force such a decision. It is your responsibility to regularly look at the website for the updated information.

## Judging
We are a community-driven league that is built on principles such as fairness, friendliness, and mindfulness. Even though we expect every participant to adhere to these principles, mistakes can happen. To clear up mistakes and their impact on a match, there will be a judge selected from the community for each gameday, who will most likely also play. The Rule Enforcement Level (REL) is regular, which can be read about [here](https://mtg.fandom.com/wiki/Rules_Enforcement_Level). The rulings of the selected judge have to obliged to, or the non-compliant player risks exclusion from the gameday, in which case they will not receive any league points for said day (counts as non-attendence). If there needs to be a judge decision in your game while you face the selected judge as your opponent, you are eligable for a second opinion. Please inform your tournament organizer should such an event occur.

If the selected judge has to leave their table for a judge call, their match gets put on hold and the lost time will be added to their individual round time.

# Standings, Points, and Tiebreaker
Each game day you can collect points for the league's standings, which is one way to qualify yourself for the top-8 tournament. A match win counts as 3 points, a tie for 1, and a loss counts as 0 points. Your final standing of the season is the sum of your best 6 attendences of the 8 possible ones. If you have participated in less than 6 legs, your final standing will be the sum of all of your attendences.

Opponent Match Win Percentage (OMW) is the measure of choice everywhere a tiebreaker is required (prices, standings, nominations, ...).

# Trophy system
To give busy players a fair chance at competing for the Paupergeddon Byes, we have implemented a Trophy system. A Trophy is a special price that qualifies the recipient for participation in a Trophy Tournament.

## Acquisition of a Trophy
Trophies are handed out to players that went 4-1 or better on a gameday as a special price. They may be handed out as physical representations while supplies last. The physical representation is not required for the qualification to the Trophy Tournament.

## Trophy Tournament
The Trophy Tournament is a randomly seeded single-elemination tournament without round time limits. Each person that received a trophy can participate. The date and place will be announced latest during the final leg of the league and can then be found on the league's landing page. This date will be fixed and there won't be any reimbursement whatsoever in case a trophy holder cannot attend.

The winner of the Trophy Tournament qualifies for the 8th spot in the Top-8 Tournament. If the winner expects to not participate in the Top-8 Tournament, they may pass on their spot to the other finalist.

# Top-8 Tournament
- open decklist?

The Top-8 Tournament is a seeded single-elimination tournament without round time limits. Eligable to participate in this tournament are the top 7 players by final standing (OMW tiebreaker) and the winner (or other finalist) of the Trophy Tournament. The date and place will be announced latest on the day of the Trophy Tournament and can then be found on the league's landing page.

This tournament is Top-4 seeded, which means that the top four players by final standings do not face each other in the first round. Instead, #1 and #4 start on one side of the tournament tree, #2 and #3 on the other. Places #5-#8 are then randomly assigned to the open slots. The Tournament shall be played out on demand (losers getting paired) in case the Paupergeddon Bye needs to be redistributed.

# Byes and World Cup
The Lega Pauper Lipsia Seasons are Winter Seasons ("Road to Lecco"). The Paupergeddon Byes awarded by the Lega Pauper Italia (LPI) are allocated to the best player by final standing, and if the threshold for the second bye is reached, it will be allocated to the Top-8 Tournament winner. Byes can only be assigned to people who are planning on attending the Paupergeddon. If a person who won a Bye is not attending the Paupergeddon, it shall be redistributed to the next eligable person. For the standings Bye, it is passed down in the order of the final standings. The Tournament Bye would be offered to the other finalist first, before being passed down further. If required, the losers brackets must be played out for a definitive passing order.

LPI rules apply: No Player can have two Byes and Byes can only be assigned to the defined Top-8.

The World Cup seats for the Paupergeddon are awarded to the two Byes and then by final league standings. Again, these can only be awarded to players participating in the Paupergeddon.

# LPI Points
Affiliated Leagues are eligable for collecting LPI Points. For an up-to-date overview, please look into the [LPI Rulebook](https://www.legapauperitalia.it/rulebook).

# Entry Fee, Promos, and Prices
Each entry free is set to 10€. There are Promos for participation which can be chosen after registrating at the venue. Prices are provided by the tournament organizers and may vary from gameday to gameday.

# Misconduct
Our community is rooted in principles of mutual respect, solidarity, and collective care. As such, all participants are expected to treat one another with respect and to contribute to a welcoming, inclusive, and safe environment for *everyone*.

**Unacceptable behavior** includes, but is not limited to:

- Harassment of any kind (including but not limited to sexist, racist, transphobic, ableist, or homophobic remarks or actions)
- Intimidation, threats, or aggressive conduct
- Repeatedly violating personal boundaries
- Cheating, stealing, or otherwise manipulating games or participants in bad faith
- Any behavior that makes others feel unsafe or unwelcome

If a participant engages in misconduct, they may be asked to leave immediately and may be barred from attending future events. This decision will be made by the organizers with the well-being of the community as the guiding priority. We reserve the right to deny entry or remove any person whose presence is disruptive or harmful, with or without prior warning.

If you witness or experience misconduct, please speak to the organizers as soon as you feel safe to do so.

Commit message:

adds proxy section to rules

content/rules.md, after:

+++
title = "Rules"
+++
# Validity
This rule set applies to the second season of the Lega Pauper Lipsia, which roughly takes place from June 2025 to Februrary 2026. It applies only to the league's gamedays.

General disclaimer: If unspecified, we fall back on reasable defaults defined in the official (LPI rulebook)[https://www.legapauperitalia.it/rulebook]. If you have trouble with terminology used on this page, then please read into the rulebook first.

## Changelog
Whenever a rule change is made during the season, it will be reflected here.
| Previous Rule                          | New Rule                              | Effective Date |
|----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|----------------|
| Example #1     | Example #2     | 2025-06-01     |



# Gamedays
Each leg follows the same schedule and rules.

## Tournament Mode
The tournament mode is five rounds of swiss, where each bye counts as a full win. Pairings are distributed in the spicerack app. Each round has a regular play time of 50 minutes with 5 overtime turns starting at the next upkeep after the timer has concluded. The chosen format is Pauper. You must play a tournament legal deck and adhere to the official Pauper banlist.

## Registration
TODO: Spicerack stuff.
- what to submit where when?
- how is pre-registration handled and what associated rights do you have
- what if all slots from pre-registration are taken - do we have a queue? how are people informed?
- deadlines for gameday registration and what happens when you are too late

## General Schedule
Each leg follows the same schedule.

| Time (German)         | Event                                      |
|--------------|--------------------------------------------|
| 10:30 AM     | Gameday Registration in Spicerack app      |
| 11:00 AM     | Start of 1st Round                         |
| ~12:00 PM    | Start of 2nd Round                         |
| ~1:00 PM     | Lunchbreak                                 |
| ~2:00 PM     | Start of 3rd Round                         |
| ~3:00 PM     | Start of 4th Round                         |
| ~4:00 PM     | Start of 5th Round                         |
| Latest 6:00 PM | Venue closes                            |


## Date and Place
The most up-to-date overview of where the tournaments are played can be found on the official [Lega website's landing page](https://legapauperlipsia.de).

Even though the dates are communicated to and committed by the venue, they are subject to change if cirmucanstances force such a decision. It is your responsibility to regularly look at the website for the updated information.

## Judging
We are a community-driven league that is built on principles such as fairness, friendliness, and mindfulness. Even though we expect every participant to adhere to these principles, mistakes can happen. To clear up mistakes and their impact on a match, there will be a judge selected from the community for each gameday, who will most likely also play. The Rule Enforcement Level (REL) is regular, which can be read about [here](https://mtg.fandom.com/wiki/Rules_Enforcement_Level). The rulings of the selected judge have to obliged to, or the non-compliant player risks exclusion from the gameday, in which case they will not receive any league points for said day (counts as non-attendence). If there needs to be a judge decision in your game while you face the selected judge as your opponent, you are eligable for a second opinion. Please inform your tournament organizer should such an event occur.

If the selected judge has to leave their table for a judge call, their match gets put on hold and the lost time will be added to their individual round time.

## Proxy Requirements

Proxies are explicitly allowed, but please follow these guidelines:

- **Legibility:** All cards must be clearly readable — name, mana cost, and effect should be easy to understand.
- **Quality:** Please use colored print outs of regular set printings.

If you're unsure whether your deck meets the requirements, just check in with us before the tournament starts. Your opponent has the right to double check the oracle text, please call a judge if necessary.

# Standings, Points, and Tiebreaker
Each game day you can collect points for the league's standings, which is one way to qualify yourself for the top-8 tournament. A match win counts as 3 points, a tie for 1, and a loss counts as 0 points. Your final standing of the season is the sum of your best 6 attendences of the 8 possible ones. If you have participated in less than 6 legs, your final standing will be the sum of all of your attendences.

Opponent Match Win Percentage (OMW) is the measure of choice everywhere a tiebreaker is required (prices, standings, nominations, ...).

# Trophy system
To give busy players a fair chance at competing for the Paupergeddon Byes, we have implemented a Trophy system. A Trophy is a special price that qualifies the recipient for participation in a Trophy Tournament.

## Acquisition of a Trophy
Trophies are handed out to players that went 4-1 or better on a gameday as a special price. They may be handed out as physical representations while supplies last. The physical representation is not required for the qualification to the Trophy Tournament.

## Trophy Tournament
The Trophy Tournament is a randomly seeded single-elemination tournament without round time limits. Each person that received a trophy can participate. The date and place will be announced latest during the final leg of the league and can then be found on the league's landing page. This date will be fixed and there won't be any reimbursement whatsoever in case a trophy holder cannot attend.

The winner of the Trophy Tournament qualifies for the 8th spot in the Top-8 Tournament. If the winner expects to not participate in the Top-8 Tournament, they may pass on their spot to the other finalist.

# Top-8 Tournament
- open decklist?

The Top-8 Tournament is a seeded single-elimination tournament without round time limits. Eligable to participate in this tournament are the top 7 players by final standing (OMW tiebreaker) and the winner (or other finalist) of the Trophy Tournament. The date and place will be announced latest on the day of the Trophy Tournament and can then be found on the league's landing page.

This tournament is Top-4 seeded, which means that the top four players by final standings do not face each other in the first round. Instead, #1 and #4 start on one side of the tournament tree, #2 and #3 on the other. Places #5-#8 are then randomly assigned to the open slots. The Tournament shall be played out on demand (losers getting paired) in case the Paupergeddon Bye needs to be redistributed.

# Byes and World Cup
The Lega Pauper Lipsia Seasons are Winter Seasons ("Road to Lecco"). The Paupergeddon Byes awarded by the Lega Pauper Italia (LPI) are allocated to the best player by final standing, and if the threshold for the second bye is reached, it will be allocated to the Top-8 Tournament winner. Byes can only be assigned to people who are planning on attending the Paupergeddon. If a person who won a Bye is not attending the Paupergeddon, it shall be redistributed to the next eligable person. For the standings Bye, it is passed down in the order of the final standings. The Tournament Bye would be offered to the other finalist first, before being passed down further. If required, the losers brackets must be played out for a definitive passing order.

LPI rules apply: No Player can have two Byes and Byes can only be assigned to the defined Top-8.

The World Cup seats for the Paupergeddon are awarded to the two Byes and then by final league standings. Again, these can only be awarded to players participating in the Paupergeddon.

# LPI Points
Affiliated Leagues are eligable for collecting LPI Points. For an up-to-date overview, please look into the [LPI Rulebook](https://www.legapauperitalia.it/rulebook).

# Entry Fee, Promos, and Prices
Each entry free is set to 10€. There are Promos for participation which can be chosen after registrating at the venue. Prices are provided by the tournament organizers and may vary from gameday to gameday.

# Misconduct
Our community is rooted in principles of mutual respect, solidarity, and collective care. As such, all participants are expected to treat one another with respect and to contribute to a welcoming, inclusive, and safe environment for *everyone*.

**Unacceptable behavior** includes, but is not limited to:

- Harassment of any kind (including but not limited to sexist, racist, transphobic, ableist, or homophobic remarks or actions)
- Intimidation, threats, or aggressive conduct
- Repeatedly violating personal boundaries
- Cheating, stealing, or otherwise manipulating games or participants in bad faith
- Any behavior that makes others feel unsafe or unwelcome

If a participant engages in misconduct, they may be asked to leave immediately and may be barred from attending future events. This decision will be made by the organizers with the well-being of the community as the guiding priority. We reserve the right to deny entry or remove any person whose presence is disruptive or harmful, with or without prior warning.

If you witness or experience misconduct, please speak to the organizers as soon as you feel safe to do so.
